---
layout:     post
title:      "Steve Jobs of Web3"
subtitle:   "The buzz word Web3 and how to extract the best of it for consumers."
description: ""
date:     2021-10-30T12:00:00
author:  " Pradeep Peter Murmu,"
image: "/img/doge-meme.jpeg"
tags:
    - Tech
URL: "/2021/10/30/steve-jobs-of-web-3/"
categories: [ Tech]
---

If you have an internet connection there’s a high chance you might have heard or seen some elements of web3. “Crypto”, “Blockchain”, “Decentralisation”, sound familiar? If No, then how about a doge meme? Shiba Inu dog on a coin with stonks written around somewhere. Yes, all that’s gonna be web3. Web3 is the 3rd generation of the internet and people have already started to move on towards it. Web2 is the internet we are using now, the website you are using to read this blog, the servers being used by the website to render this webpage. I know all of these sound interesting and who doesn’t want to be an early adopter right? I’m sure a lot of you regret not knowing about Bitcoins early.

Okay, so is this another get rich scheme like Bitcoin? First of all, Bitcoin wasn’t a get rich scheme. The sole reason for its high valuation is economics 101. An object is only as valuable as the next person willing to pay for it. Bitcoin (or any other cryptocurrency) solves the problem of money transfer or any trustless transactions with strangers for which we need banks and financial institutions. Well, this discussion is for another day. Fun fact, Bitcoin is already a legal tender of a country called El Salvador. You can clearly imagine how big this movement is already. So how can I participate in this movement? If you are a consumer you probably will start feeling the change in upcoming years. The change won’t be as drastic as the change brought about by web2 in the early 2000s but it certainly will disrupt the institutions. The fundamental of web3 is decentralization. It can eliminate a lot of middlemen between the users and the service providers.

I’m getting confused, what’s decentralization and how would it affect institutions and not us?

Let’s talk about a simple transaction you do at Starbucks. When you pay for the coffee at a Starbucks store, a lot of things happen in that single transaction of you paying and the Starbucks receiving the amount. When you use your debit/credit card at the machine, the payment gateway of the machine reads/processes your card. The card you have is of a particular bank (let’s say ABC bank) but the card isn’t provided by the bank itself. There’s another 3rd party company that helps banks provide the physical card you have. That’s usually VISA, Mastercard or any other card provider company written on your card. Now this card provider company contacts your bank (in which you have your money), verifies whether you have that much amount of money to pay the bill and then contacts the coffee shop’s bank account (XYZ bank) to deposit the money. The card provider company only acts as the authorizer (contacting banks and getting the information required for the transaction). It sounds complicated but this is what we have evolved ourselves to move away from the barter system. It’s the bank that pays each other on behalf of ourselves. Money was created as a physical form to store credits to give and take services. To make it simpler and more accessible, banks made it numbers for us so that we don’t even have to carry the physical money. It’s our trust in the bank with regards to correctly accounting for every transaction and keeping our money safe. What if we had an entity that could replicate both the roles of the bank i.e. accounting for our transactions and keeping our money safe. Tada, here comes Bitcoin (or any other cryptocurrency). The blockchain technology on which cryptocurrencies are based offer immutability and decentralization. That means, all the transactions and accounting can be preserved tampered proof in a decentralized system. Nobody can change the record and nobody owns it.

I know a lot of questions would be popping up in your head like, How does blockchain work? , How is this system sustainable? etc. If all of these intrigues you, it’s a wonderful time to look up the internet and learn more about it.

Web3 is what everybody’s talking about in technology. Companies are trying to implement metaverse in their products and NFT’s are selling like hot cake. Every new product is claiming to solve some problem using blockchains. It might seem like some unsolved problems are finally being solved or maybe efficient solutions are being created. The truth is far from all the noise. When the technology used for a solution is advertised louder than the solution itself then you have to ask questions. Most of the applications of blockchain for existing problems being solved by web2 won’t be a very big change, so much so that users or even engineers might wanna switch to it. To make people switch from existing habits (here technology), you have to give them a significantly better and efficient alternative.

This is where we need the Steve Jobs of web3. When a person uses an app, he doesn’t know what is going behind that silky transition of pages or ping sound of notification. In fact, most people don’t even care if it is web2 or web3. Technology is merely a tool to solve the problem. Jobs simplified personal computers so that anybody could use them. He didn’t throw words like X RAM and x * y display. Even today, most of apple’s products don’t even mention the exact configuration of the device in their advertisements. Web3 is in a similar position as Computers were in the early ’80s. Mostly geeks and limited community members interact and the rest of the people are in awe of what’s going on. It might still intrigue people with a basic understanding of computers and technology but when you look at the bigger picture of how blockchains and other decentralised apps can benefit masses in developing countries, you’d wanna make this technology more accessible to the masses. In countries where there is strict censorship, a decentralised social media platform can help. In Countries with poor banking infrastructure and high corruption, cryptocurrencies can solve the problem. The stakeholders in these problems are general masses who need the same technology used by some Palo Alto guy selling 8-bit monkey jpeg. The abstraction required in both situations is different.

We need decentralised apps which are like any other app. Same problems being solved behind the scenes efficiently by web3 technology but feels as intuitive as possible without those jargon words.