---
title:      "Journal #5 : Lights"
subtitle:   ""
description: ""
excerpt: ""
date:       2022-03-05 15:00:00
author:     " Pradeep Peter Murmu,"
image: "/img/journal5.jpg"
published: true
tags:
    - Journal
URL: "/2022/03/05/journal-5-lights/"
categories: [ "Journal" ]
---

I recently had a great day in terms of productivity. It’s only once in a while that I feel content about it. So I sat down to think about what could’ve possibly caused such an occasional event. Connecting the dots backwards, I realised there wasn’t anything different from my side, so I was sure it was something external. Was it because of not closing the curtains before going to sleep? That seemed like a difference since I woke up courtesy of morning sun rays slapping my face. It could be the lighting in my room filled with the early morning sunlight. Was it the evangelic light motivating me to rise and grind? It seemed like this was really making a difference. It wasn't any metaphorical “light” but simply the light in my surroundings, and I think it does impact one. 
The light I’m talking about isn’t about the source from where you get or if it is warm or cool or any other technicalities about the light. It’s the image that is being processed in your head. Light? Image? Wait a minute, am I in some physics classroom? No, not really, but it’s important to know whatever you see in this world unless you’re hallucinating are just reflections of light.

You might have had deja vu moments when you feel like something has already happened, but you’re not able to recall. These sensations can be blissful or even unnerving, depending on what your memory is recalling. I believe that a lot of these moments have pictorial triggers. There are olfactory and sound triggers as well, but pictorial triggers are just easy to interpret. Our brains have this ability to infer context from a situation whereby even if partial information is given, it will construct a complete idea using the context of that limited information. It’s like if yuo cna raed tihs then your brain is able to understand the context. Similar things happen when you see anything. Our brain constantly looks out for context, and when it finds something familiar, it triggers a sensation. This ultimately affects the mood and desire of a person. 

When I was living in the college hostel, I had a spare filament bulb in my room. The hostel rooms had white fluorescent tubes, which were good enough to study under. Some nights, my roommate and I used to switch to the filament bulb and play indie band songs in the background. It used to be a deliberate attempt to create a cosy atmosphere where you’d just want to relax and listen to melancholic and depressing music. The warm lights used to calm things down during the hectic schedule of my sophomore year. Even now when I want to slow things down, I just lower the lights in my room, and my body automatically reduces my inner energy. 
When I was in school, there used to be frequent power cuts in my town, and we didn’t have a power backup. We used candles and oil lamps at our home at night. The candle flame used to be the playground for my sisters and me. We used to stare at the wax rolling off the candle and then catch it. Casting shadows on the wall and swiping our fingers quickly through the flame, the warm yellow candlelight is etched in my memory—the memory of the time when most things were slow around me. Things were simpler and obviously less complicated and worrisome than today. These memories can be connected to why I feel relaxed and at home with those warm bulb lightings. Obviously, my brain doesn’t keep remembering things from ten or fifteen years ago and slip into nostalgia every time there’s warm light around me, but subconsciously, it’s the same feeling from that time. It just gets triggered in those moments.

Have you ever been to a beach? Palm trees and a strong sun overhead with the cool breeze? It’s always easy to imagine what it would feel like to be there even if you haven’t been there in person. We have seen enough movies and videos where actors express their feelings about what it is to be lying on sand and watching the seashore. The image of the beach is always optimistic and cheerful. Rarely you’d find a depressing scene in the context of movies happening around beaches. The “sunny” imagery in our minds is culturally imbibed as a feeling of freedom and playfulness. A good sunny day is an instant mood lifter. Humans naturally feel good about a sunny day because of biological reasons. On top of that, if you add a psychological advantage of feeling good because of how your brain associates a sunny day with some good memory, then that’s the cherry on the cake. Like I said earlier, the brain doesn’t have to remember that particular good memory; it will just trigger the dopamine release because all the pictorial triggers are well defined subconsciously.

For a long time, I always wanted a bedside lamp. I had seen in movies where an actor would read a book beside the lamp before going to sleep.  The marriage issue of the character would show in the actor’s face with light thrown from the bedside lamp. Sometimes an actor would pull the drawer and look at his gun. The depth of those scenes was all cast under the light of a bedside lamp. These imageries are stuck with me. The lighting and setting of those scenes just subconsciously trigger a sense of seriousness. This is why, whenever I read beside my bedside lamp at night, I have better concentration and sedateness. It’s a different feeling from what I’d usually get while reading on the balcony in the afternoon. It’s the imagery; it’s the lighting that plays an unspoken role. 

There can be many instances of why we feel good, motivated, safe or just comfortable in certain places because of how instantly our brain decides based on limited pictorial triggers. This is not about remembering something from the past and reacting accordingly. It’s obvious that humans are wired to do this. The focal point is about the strange play of lights to just give us enough hint so that our brain creates a context which we call “I’m just having a good feeling about it”. People in films and television know very well about the magic of colour grading and editing. There are studies in psychology related to human response to colours which are widely used in marketing and product designing. These studies have been so well researched on the community level that they have become ubiquitous in psychology fundamentals. But what about at the individual level? What about the lights that only you have seen and felt? These are scenes only you know how you perceived. It can’t be studied, researched or proven. In fact, it doesn’t need any validation because it’s just something not under our cognitive control. 


