---
layout:     post 
title:      "Journal #3 : Bench-pressing with my overthinking mind "
subtitle:   ""
description: ""
date:       2022-01-23 12:00:00
author:     " Pradeep Peter Murmu,"
image: "/img/hauz-khas.jpg"
published: true
tags:
    - Journal
    - Health
URL: "/2022/01/23/journal-3-bench-pressing-with-my-overthinking-mind/"
categories: [ Journal ]    
---

When COVID lockdowns happened in March of 2020, our colleges got shut and everybody had to go back to their homes. Apart from all the tragedies happening across the world and mental health taking a toll, a big question had come to knock at our doors which often used to get ignored unless it broke in. The question was about our health. A question that is more like an adage because of all the proverbs we grew up listening to yet never followed. I wouldn’t say that I’m a very healthy person because looking fit and being healthy are really two different things and I’m none of them. I’m a 6 ft 2 inches tall, skinny guy who never really ate anything healthy by choice. Whatever little fitness I have is all because of veggies and fruits my mum sneakily and sometimes forcefully served on my plate. During my school days, I ate less and preferred fast food whenever I had the chance. My love for running burnt all my carbs and I remained skinny. It also never made me gain muscle so much so that even in 2020, I wasn’t able to do 2 push-ups properly. Physical strength ain’t my strongest prowess but it was something I had always planned to upgrade.

So when lockdowns happened, I had an ample amount of time to finally focus on myself. I was at home with no gym equipment and a family whose only understanding of fitness and health was to abstain from outside food. Not denying the importance of diet in our fitness, but when you enter your early 20’s, you start having a desire to look a certain way and food was just not enough to achieve that. I needed strength training to bulge those muscles. I’ve had one or two failed short stints of gym workouts earlier when I was in school. I remember, right after my 12th board’s exam I joined a gym near my home and dedicatedly went there for exactly 21 days. The gym was as big as a hall of a 2BHK apartment with equipment that looked like the first ten options you get when you sort low to high on Amazon. Now when I think about that I paid 500 rs a month for a manual treadmill (Yes, they had a manual treadmill), I feel I should rather have got paid that much for running like a hamster on it. But during the lockdown, I needed anything that could help me in strength training. With the failure to procure any equipment to train my muscle, I convinced myself that in fact, diet is what will help me achieve my fitness goal. My elder sister used to drink green tea and I thought why not add one to my diet. I really had mastered the art of fooling my brain to think that a cup of green tea was sufficient for my fitness goal. I think it was more about how I just fizzled away from thinking about my fitness and looks. Fast forward to six months into lockdowns and government restrictions, I had again made myself occupied but this time with online classes and job placement preparations. At the end of 2020, I had gained a small paunch and a job. I wasn’t left with any excuses to carry with me for 2021. In other news, COVID cases were declining and so was my productivity at home. I needed a change of environment and decided to come back to my college hostel.

I started off 2021 satisfactorily with fewer commitments and no strict resolutions. I didn’t hurry into joining some fancy gymnasiums because I’ve lived enough Januaries to understand my habit. I started off with running and resuming my evening football with my friends. Gradually I moved into strength training and started hitting the hostel gym regularly. Now it might sound like I really started off for that beefed up transformation, but let me remind you of the kind of person I am. Without a purpose or a plan, I really lack efficiency. I did go to the hostel gym but never pushed myself for that extra rep. I constantly slacked but the best part of even doing little and regular is that you achieve something. I improved my push-ups counter to 15 in one set. That really felt like I had brought some change in my fitness. However small it may look, I felt I had gained some muscle in my arms. In the month of May, my college got over but not the COVID. The second wave of COVID had arrived and once again lockdowns were reinstated. I went back home with all my belongings and started working from there till the end of August. During this stay at my home, I needed gym equipment to continue my workout activities. I knew that if I took a long break from workouts, I might lose motivation. Enthusiastically, I opened Amazon and searched for gym equipment, and to my surprise dumbbells were a hell of expensive stuff. Pardon my nearby gym from 5 years ago, I too did sort from low to high and chose among the top ten options I got. For that three months before arriving in Noida, I barely used that cheap gym equipment at home and my urge to join a proper gym kept on increasing. 

When I arrived in Noida in September, I knew what I had to do first. I straight up googled nearby gyms and found one really nice under 3 kilometres from my residence. It was 2.4 kilometres to be precise and I remember that accurately because I had planned it as my warm-up cardio run before hitting the weights directly on arrival at the gym. I had booked an 8 AM slot for my regular morning gym which meant I had to wake by 7 AM. I did reach on time for my first session but I had woken up just 15 minutes before that. It had taken only 4 minutes to reach using an Uber bike. I booked the bike while getting ready and the Uber bike was at the door when I finished. It was such a sweet synchronisation and utilisation of my time that I never went on a run to the gym. Every morning I booked an Uber bike while I brushed and reached the pick-up point at its exact arrival. Uber drivers used to be the first face other than mine that I used to see every morning. 

I usually avoid small talks with people because I get too conscious. It’s even more difficult when you know that person is going to be around in your life for some time like in college, workplace or neighbourhood. I mean how can you just let a person remember you as a guy who likes brown shoes and hates cold weather since you said something like “Oh nice shoes” and “The weather seems harsh, doesn’t it?” while trying to break the ice. If it were a stranger then it wouldn’t matter because you know you won’t come across that person again in your life so why to even care about what they think. Uber drivers were those strangers with whom I could do small talks and not care about what they think. The fun part of this activity is that you really get to know something interesting that otherwise wouldn’t have penetrated into your uptown workplace or college circle.

This one time, I hopped on an Uber bike and started my usual small talk with the driver. I asked him where he was from and what brought him to a metro city. Since the journey is only 4 to 5 minutes long, it usually ends with them in between their answers. Most of the answers have identical feelings attached and the story too ain’t much different from each other. The answers have almost similar plots that speak loudly about the similar struggles of the working class of our country. The uber trip would just become a data entry in my past rides section of the app and so will his story in my small talk archives. On arriving at the gym, we exchanged smiles and our paths diverged. An hour later, after my workout, I booked an uber bike to my home. When the driver arrived, he immediately said “Wahi jana hai?”. I was just scrolling on Twitter and suddenly became startled at his question. It was difficult for me to recognise him since he had a full-face helmet. I crossed check on my uber app whether I had put the correct destination or not. Finding me amused, he reminded me that he was the same driver who had dropped me off in the morning. “It’s really a small world”, I thought in my head and hopped on the pillion. It was a rare thing to happen in the present world driven by algorithms. He was no more a stranger to me because we had already met. My small talk instinct fell off and I couldn’t break the ice this time. He felt it was his turn to question me and he picked up from the conversation we had earlier. He asked whether I was in a college or a job and for how long I had been going to the gym. He asked if I played any sport, to which I depressingly replied that I didn’t know many people around.  As usual, the conversation ended in between the answer but this time I was the one saying. When I got off the bike, I thanked him for the ride and the conversation. He greeted me back saying that it was the first time he picked and dropped any customer at the same point on the same day. We exchanged smiles and then departed. For him, I would become another data entry in his past trips section of the Uber app. My answers to his question might have made him think about how people in desk jobs have enough time to take care of their health and join fancy gyms. Maybe he would think how young people in cities don’t even know their neighbours. Maybe he won’t even think about me or about the “similar struggles” of the “working class of our country” but on the desk. I really should quit thinking about what he would be thinking. I mean he’s a stranger after all and you know you won’t come across that person again in your life so why to even care about what they think.

Wait, I think I just met him twice.
